# ARTICLE 14 <br> HEALTH BENEFITS 

A. Eligible ASEs may participate in a University-sponsored student health insurance plan to the same degree other eligible students at that campus participate. University-sponsored student health insurance plans include the multi-campus UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) administered by the UC Office of the President, and Graduate Student Health Insurance Plans administered by specific campuses who have elected not to participate in UC SHIP.
B. An ASE who is a registered graduate student with ASE appointment(s) or other eligible academic appointments totaling $25 \%$ or more of full-time for a given term in a State-supported or Self-Supporting Program is eligible to receive remission of premium for a University-sponsored student health insurance plan. An ASE is eligible to receive only one premium remission per term. In the event premiums increase, the University will continue to provide $100 \%$ premium remissions to eligible ASEs.
C. The University-sponsored student health insurance plans are student health insurance programs for registered students, and the eligibility for and the availability of these programs are not related to a student's status as an ASE. The parties acknowledge that the terms of the plans, including coverage, carriers, premium rates, or other program provisions, are not a term and condition of employment for an ASE.
D. An ASE who is eligible to receive a health insurance premium remission through an ASE appointment, or through a combination of GSR and ASE appointments, is also eligible to receive $100 \%$ premium remission for their child dependents if the ASE's income exceeds the designated Medi-Cal eligibility threshold.

1. If the ASE has a spouse, and the combination of their income places the ASE's family over the designated Medi-Cal eligibility threshold then the ASE is not eligible for the child dependent premium remission.
2. Eligible child dependents are defined by UCSHIP plan regulations.
E. An ASE who is not a registered student and who is not eligible to participate in a University-sponsored student health insurance plan will be eligible to participate in the non-student University Health Insurance program in the same manner as non-represented, non-senate academic employees.
1) Eligibility to participate in the employee University Health Insurance Program will be in accordance with the University Health Program provisions.
2) Costs of the University Health Insurance Program in excess of the University contribution will be borne by the employee and will be paid in accordance with the program provisions.
3) During the term of this agreement, the University has the sole discretion to alter the terms of the program including but not limited to coverage, carriers, contribution rates or other program provisions.
F. The University and the UAW shall meet twice a year to discuss the University sponsored student health insurance plans. Appropriate topics for discussions are those health insurance related issues that apply to ASEs including systemwide participation in UCSHIP, potential changes in benefits, deductibles, and co-pays.

The University agrees to provide up to 4 hours of paid release time (including travel) to one ASE per campus for the purpose of attending systemwide meetings. The first such meeting shall take place during the first quarter of fiscal year 2023-2024.

