# ARTICLE 1 <br> RECOGNITION

A. This Memorandum of Understanding, hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement," is entered into by and between The Regents of the University of California, a corporation hereinafter referred to as the "University," or "UC," or "management," and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW), AFL-CIO, and its Local Union, hereinafter referred to as the "UAW" or the "Union."

B. The University recognizes the UAW, as the exclusive representative for matters within the scope of representation for all employees within the Graduate Student Researchers unit ("Unit") as certified by the Public Employment Relations Board (PERB) in petition number SF-RR-1022-H as described in the Recognition Agreement dated December 8, 2021:

1. Graduate Student Researcher - Category of Employees

a. Definition: Graduate student who performs research as a condition of receiving financial remuneration from funding generated by the University in an academic department or research unit, provided that the graduate student is performing this funded research under the control of the University and under the specific direction of a faculty member or authorized Principal Investigator.

b. These title and job codes will be applicable to this category of Graduate Student Employees:
  
    i. GSR-FULL FEE REM, 3282
    ii. GSR-FULL TUIT & PARTIAL FEE REM, 3283
    iii. GSR-NO REM, 3266
    iv. GSR-PARTIAL FEE REM, 3276
    v. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM, 3284
    vi. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM-UCSD-GRP B, 3285
    vii. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM-UCSD-GRP C, 3286
    viii. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM-UCSD-GRP D, 3287
    ix. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM-UCSD-GRP E, 3262
    x. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM-UCSD-GRP F, 3263
    xi. GSR-TUIT & FEE REM-UCSD-GRP G, 3264

2. "Trainee" Category of Employees

a. Definition: Where the graduate student meets the terms identified in Section B.1.a and the funding source from which they receive remuneration deems that the money provided cannot be characterized as wages, the graduate student is an employee and the University will place the graduate student employee in a new "Trainee" title code that reflects that the money provided is not subject to a W -2.

b. Titles and Title Codes: The University will use the following titles and job codes for Trainees:

    i. 003150 GSR-TRAINEE-NO REM<br>
    ii. 003151 GSR-TRAINEE-TUIT&FEE REM

3. "Fellow" Category of Employees

a. Definition: Graduate student who (i) obtains individual fellowship(s) where receipt of the fellowship funding requires the performance of a service for the University; and (ii) performs research in an academic department or research unit, provided that the graduate student is performing this fellowship research under the control of the University and under the specific direction of a faculty member or authorized Principal Investigator.
b. Titles and Title Codes: The University will use the following titles and job codes for Fellows:

    i. 003140 GSR-FELLOWSHIP-NO REM<br>
    ii. 003141 GSR-FELLOWSHIP-TUIT&FEE REM

4. Graduate Student Research Assistants at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory - Category of Employees

a. LBNL titles and job codes are as follows:

    i. Graduate Student Research Assistant (GSRA) - Job Codes 214.1214.X

5. The term "Graduate Student Researcher" or "GSR" shall be used throughout this Agreement to refer to all Graduate Student Researchers (section A), Trainees (section B), Fellows (section C), and GSRAs (section D) in the bargaining unit. When there is a distinction in the terms and conditions of employment that apply to the GSRs in section A above versus the Trainees, Fellows, or GSRAs, those distinctions shall be described by reference to those titles.

C. EXCLUSION FROM THE UNIT:

Anyone not defined as employees above are excluded from the unit, including, but not limited to:

1. All employees defined by HEERA as managerial, supervisory and/or confidential;
2. All employees of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Los Alamos National Laboratory;
3. All employees in title code CWR003 - Visiting Student Res-Graduate;
4. All positions that are exclusively represented at the time of this petition;
5. All staff positions covered by the University of California Office of the President Personnel Policies for Staff Members; and
6. Students who receive funding, including financial aid awards, to pursue a course of study with no or de minimis service expectation imposed by the University, and whose receipt of these funds does not require the performance of service at the direction and control of the University.

D. The parties may agree to modify the recognized unit pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Public Employment Relations Board (PERB).
