# ARTICLE 23 POSTING

## A. CAMPUS WIDE POSTING OF APPOINTMENT OPPORTUNITIES

By March 15th of each year, the University shall post any available information regarding ASE appointment opportunities for the following academic year on the central campus website. Sixty (60) days before the commencement of each academic year, departments and hiring units shall post on the website available positions within the department for that year. Should new positions become available, they shall be posted within fourteen (14) days. The website shall contain the following information:

1. The projected number of available ASE positions by department/hiring unit that the University anticipates for the following academic year. This projection is not a guarantee of the actual number of ASE positions that will be available or filled;
2. An employment non-discrimination statement;
3. A general description of the duties performed by each of the classifications covered by the agreement;
4. The "minimum qualifications" by classification as established by and at the sole discretion of the University;
5. A statement indicating that exceptions to the minimum eligibility qualifications may be granted at the sole discretion of the University; and
6. The application procedures or hiring unit contact person for ASE positions.

## B. POSTING AT THE DEPARTMENT LEVEL

Nothing in this article or in this agreement shall prevent departments or other campus hiring units from providing additional information regarding ASE employment opportunities on bulletin boards or other web sites. For those departments and hiring units that have formal written guidelines regarding hiring for and allocations of ASE positions, the guidelines will be posted. Changes in written guidelines shall be posted prior to implementation.

