# ARTICLE 34 <br> WORKLOAD 

## A. TEACHING ASSISTANT (TA)

1. For purposes of this article only, TA refers to Teaching Assistant, Special Reader, Teaching Fellow, and Associate Instructor. Assigned workload is measured by how many hours the University could reasonably expect a TA to take to satisfactorily complete the work assigned.
a. A TA with a 50% appointment shall not be assigned a workload of more than 220 hours per quarter or 340 hours per semester. This standard shall apply proportionately to other percent appointments.
b. In addition, a TA with an appointment of 50% or less shall not be assigned a workload of more than 40 hours in any one week or assigned to work more than eight (8) hours in any one day. The number of hours worked in excess of twenty (20) hours per week may not total more than 50 hours per quarter or 77 hours per semester.
2. TAs shall initiate discussions with their supervisor as soon as they anticipate any workload related issues that would result in a violation of this article.

## B. READER/TUTOR

Readers and tutors shall be compensated on an hourly basis. Assigned workload is measured by how many hours the University could reasonably expect a reader or tutor to take to satisfactorily complete the work assigned. Readers and tutors shall not be assigned a workload of more than 40 hours in any one week or assigned to work more than eight (8) hours in any one day. Tutors shall be guaranteed pay for the entirety of any pre-scheduled tutoring timeslot.

## C. INSTRUCTOR OF RECORD

ASEs who are the instructors of record will be responsible for a workload consistent with the normal workload for the course. ASEs who are the Instructors of Record will normally receive a 50$ appointment for a regular academic course.

## D. NOTIFICATION OF WORKLOAD MAXIMUM

1. When an ASE perceives they may exceed the daily, weekly or term (quarter or semester) maximum number of hours in their appointment, the ASE shall communicate this fact to their faculty supervisor prior to exceeding the workload maximum.
2. Provided the workload issue is resolved informally, the ASE is encouraged to send an email to the faculty supervisor with the agreed-upon resolution.

## E. AVAILABLE REMEDIES

1. If an ASE is going to exceed the daily, weekly or term maximum number of hours of their appointment, the University shall either:
a. Increase the ASE's appointment percentage to be consistent with the number of hours the ASE will work and/or
b. Modify the ASE's work assignment such that the number of hours worked will be consistent with the ASE's appointment percentage and workload limits.
2. Any changes pursuant to Subsections E. 1. a. and E. 1. b. above shall be communicated to the ASE in writing.

## F. EXPEDITED PROCESS

1. Alleged violations of daily, weekly or term (quarter or semester) maximum number of hours is subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure as modified by the expedited process in Section 3 below.
2. For such grievances, the Informal Step 1 of the grievance procedure is mandatory and is limited to the remedies in Section E above. In the event that such a grievance is not settled through the Informal Step 1, the grievant may file a formal grievance with the campus labor relations office. If the grievance is not resolved within ten (10) calendar days, the UAW may submit the grievance directly to arbitration for an expedited hearing.
3. Expedited arbitration hearings shall be held on a mutually agreeable date, as close to fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the arbitration submission as possible. Such arbitrations concerning this section shall be conducted in a one-day hearing including closing statements, without court reporter's transcripts or post-hearing briefs. The arbitrator shall provide a bench decision which becomes effective immediately and provide a written opinion and award.
