# ARTICLE 36 <br> DURATION 

## A. DURATION

1. The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect commencing upon ratification by the parties, and shall terminate at 11:59 a.m. on May 31, 2025.
2. Neither party shall have any duty to meet and confer for the purpose of modifying terms and conditions of the Agreement.

## B. SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT NEGOTIATIONS

1. No later than December 1, 2024, the Union shall notify the University if it intends to open the Agreement for successor negotiations.
2. The University shall have until December 15, 2024, to notify the Union if it intends to open the Agreement for successor negotiations.
3. If neither party notifies the other of its intent to open the Agreement for successor negotiations, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the procedures in Section C below shall apply.
4. If the conditions under B.1. and B. 2 are met, the Union shall provide the University with written notice of its selected article(s) and a list of bargaining team members by no later than January 14, 2025.
5. If the conditions under B.1., B.2., and B.4. are met, the University shall provide the Union with written notice of its selected article(s) by no later than January 28, 2025.
6. By February 4,2025 , the parties shall set a mutually agreeable start date for the commencement of negotiations.

## C. CONTINUATION OF AGREEMENT

1. In the event that neither party gives timely notice as set forth in this section, this Agreement shall remain in effect on a year-to-year basis, from June 1st until the following May 31st.
2. In the event that the Agreement continues in this manner, the parties shall provide written notice of selected articles and a list of bargaining team members for a successor Agreement no later than December 1st of the applicable academic year. Thereafter, the parties shall follow the requirements for negotiations of a successor agreement as set forth in Section B., above.
