index.md, before:

---
layout: home
author_profile: true
header:
  image: /assets/images/header.jpg
  image_description: "Deer walking through dry grass at UC, Santa Cruz."
  caption: "©2022 Paul Wintz"
---

<!-- # About -->

I am a PhD student in the Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Under the advisement of Professor Ricardo G. Sanfelice, I study various topics within the domain of hybrid systems. My research interests include 
- Switching schemes between multiple controllers for achieving asymptotic stability
- Approximation theory for hybrid systems
- Model predictive control
- Numerical simulation of hybrid systems

Outside of research, I have wide-ranging interests including music, [art](/art/), improv comedy, and reading. 
You can find links to my presence across the internet at my [LinkTree](https://linktr.ee/paulwintz). 

# Pages
<!-- - [CV](/cv)
- [Publications](/publications) -->
- [Writing Tips](/writing-tips/): A collection of tips for mathematical writing.
- [LaTeX Macros](/latex-macros/): A collection of useful LaTeX macros that I have created.
<!-- - [Music](/music) -->
- [Photography Portfolio](/photography/)
- [Art Portfolio](/art/)

{% include recent_posts.html %}

Commit message:

Add list of software projects to home page and minor improvments to CV.

index.md, after:

---
layout: home
author_profile: true
header:
  image: /assets/images/header.jpg
  image_description: "Deer walking through dry grass at UC, Santa Cruz."
  caption: "©2022 Paul Wintz"
---

<!-- # About -->

I am a PhD student in the Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Under the advisement of Professor Ricardo G. Sanfelice, I study various topics within the domain of hybrid systems. My research interests include 
- Switching schemes between multiple controllers for achieving asymptotic stability
- Approximation theory for hybrid systems
- Model predictive control
- Numerical simulation of hybrid systems

Outside of research, I have wide-ranging interests including music, [art](/art/), improv comedy, and reading. 
You can find links to my presence across the internet at my [LinkTree](https://linktr.ee/paulwintz). 

# Software Projects
- [Hybrid Equations Toolbox](https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/102239-hybrid-equations-toolbox-beta): MATLAB toolbox for simulating hybrid systems and plotting the computed trajectories.
- [Dryer Lint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=pwintz.dryer-lint&ssr=false#overview): Extension for VS Code to define custom linting rules using regular expressions. I use it extensively when writing manuscripts in LaTeX. See more about my VS Code+LaTeX setup [here](latex-in-vscode/).
- [Spyrotechnics](http://spiromaniac.tumblr.com/): Mathematical art based on classic Spirograph toy. (But recursive! And animated!)
- [SHARC](https://github.com/pwintz/sharc): A simulator for cyber-physical systems that uses a "microarchitectural simulator" to determine the runtime of a controller executable on a given CPU and incorporates the delay into simulation of the system's dynamics.

# Pages
<!-- - [CV](/cv)
- [Publications](/publications) -->
- [Writing Tips](/writing-tips/): A collection of tips for mathematical writing.
- [LaTeX Macros](/latex-macros/): A collection of useful LaTeX macros that I have created.
<!-- - [Music](/music) -->
- [Photography Portfolio](/photography/)
- [Art Portfolio](/art/)

{% include recent_posts.html %}
