---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 16
article_name: Immigration
title: Article 16 - Immigration
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-16
pdf_name: bx_16-immigration_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


<div class="lvl1"><b>A.</b> No <span class="tooltip">Academic Student Employee<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> ("ASE") covered by this Agreement shall suffer any loss of seniority or compensation, due to any legal changes in the ASE's name or social security number.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>B.</b> The University will request that a federal immigration agent or a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) agent comply with legal requirements before they may be allowed to interrogate, search or seize the person or property of any <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> while the ASE is working on the University's premises and under the University's control. In the event that the University is served with a validly executed Search or Arrest warrant, the University shall arrange for a questioning of ASEs to occur in as private a setting as possible in the workplace. The University will notice the union if the University learns of an immigration investigation regarding an ASE.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>C.</b> The University will furnish to any <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> terminated because they are not authorized to work in the United States of America, a copy of this Section of the Agreement.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>D.</b> The University shall grant <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> leave time, in accordance with <a href="/uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-18">Article 18 Leaves</a>, when given one weeks' prior notice to attend any appointments and/or hearings scheduled by federal immigration officials or the U.S. Department of State with respect to immigration or citizenship status of the employee, spouse, domestic partner, child or parent. The University may require proof of the appointment and/or hearings and proof of the family relationship.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>E.</b> In the event that an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> is not authorized to work in the United States of America and the ASE's employment is terminated for this reason, the University agrees to meet with the Union and the ASE to make reasonable efforts to reemploy the ASE for the following academic term. If re-employed, the ASE would have to provide valid work authorization.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>F.</b> Should any change in laws or regulations relevant to these procedures, including but not limited to repeal of DACA, rescinding of TPS, travel bans, or any other change in immigration law or regulations, or a court ruling that sets forth any new interpretation pertaining to these procedures occur, then, at the union's request, the parties shall meet, in accordance with section $G$ below, to determine whether any adjustments to these procedures are necessary to comply with the new legal requirements. The University may need to comply with the law irrespective of its obligation to meet with the union.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>G.</b> Joint Labor Management Committee - the University and the UAW shall use the labor management meeting process in accordance with <a href="/uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-17">Article 17 - Labor Management Meetings</a> to discuss issues arising from this article.</div>

