---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 10
article_name: Employment File(S) And Evaluation 
title: Article 10 - Employment File(S) And Evaluation 
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-10
pdf_name: bx_10-employment-files-and-evaluation_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


## A. EMPLOYMENT FILES

"Employment file" shall be defined as information (including reports, documents, correspondence and other materials in their entirety or redacted portions) pertaining to an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s employment in the bargaining unit. Materials related exclusively to ASE coursework shall not be considered part of the employment file.

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> The University shall designate the location where <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> or their designated representatives may obtain access to the ASE's employment file(s).</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> will be notified that employment files are established and maintained for ASEs and new material may be added periodically during the term of their employment. The University shall notify the ASE in writing (via letter or email) of the new material as soon as practicable, but no later than thirty (30) days following the end of the term.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>3.</b> Additionally, an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> may make a request to their supervisor to add information related to their ASE performance to their employment file. Such requests shall be made no later than thirty (30) calendar days following the conclusion of each term.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>4.</b> An <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> may authorize representatives to review their employment file(s). The authorization shall be valid for the period designated by the individual or, if no time period is designated, for up to one calendar year from the date of authorization. The designee shall have access to all employment information in the file(s).</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>5.</b> The University shall provide an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> or their representatives access to or a copy of the ASE's employment file(s) as soon as practicable, but no later than thirty (30) calendar days, following the University's receipt of a written request. One copy of employment file(s) material shall be free; subsequent copies shall be ten (10) cents per page.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>6.</b> If an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> disagrees with evaluative material in their file(s), they may append material to the file(s). If an individual is no longer employed when the evaluative material is placed into the file, the ASE has 30 days from the date the ASE reviewed their file(s) or knew or reasonably should have known that it was placed into the file to append material to the file.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>7.</b> If an employment file contains factual non-evaluative information that is incorrect the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> may request correction of the file(s) within 30 calendar days of discovery. If an ASE is no longer employed when the factual non-evaluative information is placed into the file, they have 30 days from the date the ASE reviewed their file(s) or knew or reasonably should have known that it was placed into the file to request correction.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>8.</b> Records involving the processing of a <span class="tooltip">grievance<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Grievance</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "grievance" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, such as grievance/appeals, UC grievance responses, and settlement documents shall not be placed in the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s employment file(s).</div>

## B. EMPLOYMENT EVALUATIONS

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> "Employment evaluation" is the faculty member or supervisor's written assessment(s) of an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s employment performance, excluding evaluations of courses.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> The employing department or hiring unit shall communicate evaluation criteria and procedures for written employment evaluations, if any, to employees and the UAW any time upon request</div>
