---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 23
article_name: Posting
title: Article 23 - Posting
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-23
pdf_name: bx_23-posting_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


## A. CAMPUS WIDE POSTING OF APPOINTMENT OPPORTUNITIES

By March 15th of each year, the University shall post any available information regarding <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> appointment opportunities for the following academic year on the central campus website. Sixty (60) days before the commencement of each academic year, departments and hiring units shall post on the website available positions within the department for that year. Should new positions become available, they shall be posted within fourteen (14) days. The website shall contain the following information:

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> The projected number of available <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> positions by department/hiring unit that the University anticipates for the following academic year. This projection is not a guarantee of the actual number of ASE positions that will be available or filled;</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> An employment non-discrimination statement;</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>3.</b> A general description of the duties performed by each of the classifications covered by the agreement;</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>4.</b> The "minimum qualifications" by classification as established by and at the sole discretion of the University;</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>5.</b> A statement indicating that exceptions to the minimum eligibility qualifications may be granted at the sole discretion of the University; and</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>6.</b> The application procedures or hiring unit contact person for <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> positions.</div>

## B. POSTING AT THE DEPARTMENT LEVEL

Nothing in this article or in this agreement shall prevent departments or other campus hiring units from providing additional information regarding <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> employment opportunities on bulletin boards or other web sites. For those departments and hiring units that have formal written guidelines regarding hiring for and allocations of ASE positions, the guidelines will be posted. Changes in written guidelines shall be posted prior to implementation.

