---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 34
article_name: Workload 
title: Article 34 - Workload 
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-34
pdf_name: bx_34-workload_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


<div class="lvl2"><h2>A. TEACHING ASSISTANT (TA)</h2>

<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">1.</h3> For purposes of this article only, <span class="tooltip">TA<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Teaching assistant</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "teaching assistant" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> refers to Teaching Assistant, Special Reader, Teaching Fellow, and Associate Instructor. Assigned workload is measured by how many hours the University could reasonably expect a TA to take to satisfactorily complete the work assigned.
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">a.</h4> A <span class="tooltip">TA<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Teaching assistant</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "teaching assistant" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> with a 50% appointment shall not be assigned a workload of more than 220 hours per quarter or 340 hours per semester. This standard shall apply proportionately to other percent appointments.
</div><!-- End of level 4: a.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">b.</h4> In addition, a <span class="tooltip">TA<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Teaching assistant</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "teaching assistant" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> with an appointment of 50% or less shall not be assigned a workload of more than 40 hours in any one week or assigned to work more than eight (8) hours in any one day. The number of hours worked in excess of twenty (20) hours per week may not total more than 50 hours per quarter or 77 hours per semester.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 1.-->
</div><!-- End of level 4: b.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">2.</h3> <span class="tooltip">TAs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Teaching assistant</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "teaching assistant" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> shall initiate discussions with their supervisor as soon as they anticipate any workload related issues that would result in a violation of this article.

</div><!-- End of level 2: A. TEACHING ASSISTANT (TA)-->
</div><!-- End of level 3: 2.-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>B. READER/TUTOR</h2>

Readers and tutors shall be compensated on an hourly basis. Assigned workload is measured by how many hours the University could reasonably expect a reader or tutor to take to satisfactorily complete the work assigned. Readers and tutors shall not be assigned a workload of more than 40 hours in any one week or assigned to work more than eight (8) hours in any one day. Tutors shall be guaranteed pay for the entirety of any pre-scheduled tutoring timeslot.

</div><!-- End of level 2: B. READER/TUTOR-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>C. INSTRUCTOR OF RECORD</h2>

ASEs who are the instructors of record will be responsible for a workload consistent with the normal workload for the course. <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> who are the Instructors of Record will normally receive a 50% appointment for a regular academic course.

</div><!-- End of level 2: C. INSTRUCTOR OF RECORD-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>D. NOTIFICATION OF WORKLOAD MAXIMUM</h2>

<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">1.</h3> When an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> perceives they may exceed the daily, weekly or term (quarter or semester) maximum number of hours in their appointment, the ASE shall communicate this fact to their faculty supervisor prior to exceeding the workload maximum.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 1.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">2.</h3> Provided the workload issue is resolved informally, the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> is encouraged to send an email to the faculty supervisor with the agreed-upon resolution.

</div><!-- End of level 2: D. NOTIFICATION OF WORKLOAD MAXIMUM-->
</div><!-- End of level 3: 2.-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>E. AVAILABLE REMEDIES</h2>

<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">1.</h3> If an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> is going to exceed the daily, weekly or term maximum number of hours of their appointment, the University shall either:
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">a.</h4> Increase the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s appointment percentage to be consistent with the number of hours the ASE will work and/or
</div><!-- End of level 4: a.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">b.</h4> Modify the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s work assignment such that the number of hours worked will be consistent with the ASE's appointment percentage and workload limits.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 1.-->
</div><!-- End of level 4: b.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">2.</h3> Any changes pursuant to Subsections E.1.a. and E.1.b. above shall be communicated to the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> in writing.

</div><!-- End of level 2: E. AVAILABLE REMEDIES-->
</div><!-- End of level 3: 2.-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>F. EXPEDITED PROCESS</h2>

<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">1.</h3> Alleged violations of daily, weekly or term (quarter or semester) maximum number of hours is subject to the <span class="tooltip">grievance<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Grievance</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "grievance" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>/<span class="tooltip">arbitration<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Arbitration</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "arbitration" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> procedure as modified by the expedited process in Section 3 below.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 1.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">2.</h3> For such <span class="tooltip">grievances<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Grievance</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "grievance" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, the Informal Step 1 of the grievance procedure is mandatory and is limited to the remedies in Section E above. In the event that such a grievance is not settled through the Informal Step 1, the grievant may file a formal grievance with the campus labor relations office. If the grievance is not resolved within ten (10) calendar days, the UAW may submit the grievance directly to <span class="tooltip">arbitration<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Arbitration</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "arbitration" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> for an expedited hearing.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 2.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3 class="inline-header">3.</h3> Expedited <span class="tooltip">arbitration<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Arbitration</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "arbitration" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> hearings shall be held on a mutually agreeable date, as close to fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the arbitration submission as possible. Such arbitrations concerning this section shall be conducted in a one-day hearing including closing statements, without court reporter's transcripts or post-hearing briefs. The arbitrator shall provide a bench decision which becomes effective immediately and provide a written opinion and award.
</div><!-- End of level 2: F. EXPEDITED PROCESS-->
</div><!-- End of level 3: 3.-->
