---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 33
article_name: Waiver 
title: Article 33 - Waiver 
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-33
pdf_name: bx_33-waiver_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


<div class="lvl1"><b>A.</b> The University and the Union acknowledge that during the negotiations resulting in this Agreement, each party had the opportunity to make proposals with respect to any subject matter not prohibited by law from the area of collective bargaining. This Agreement sets forth the full and entire understanding of the parties regarding the matters contained herein.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>B.</b> Unless mutually agreed to otherwise, the University and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to, or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered by this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>C.</b> With respect to other matters within the scope of negotiations, but not covered in Section A above, in the event the University proposes a new policy that has a significant and consequential impact on the terms and conditions of employment for ASEs in the unit,the University will meet, upon timely request by the UAW, over the impact of the decision to the extent required by law.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>D.</b> With respect to other matters within the scope of negotiations, but not covered in Sections A or B above, negotiations may be required during the term of this agreement, but only as provided below.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>a.</b> The parties recognize that during the term of this agreement, it may be necessary for the University to make changes in areas within the scope of negotiations. Where the University finds it necessary to make such changes the University shall notify the UAW of proposed changes thirty (30) calendardays prior to their proposed implementation.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>b.</b> The parties shall undertake negotiations regarding the impact of such changes on ASEs when all three of the following exist:</div>
<div class="lvl4"><b>i.</b> 
 Where such changes would significantly affect the working conditions of a substantial number of employees in the bargaining unit;</div>
<div class="lvl4"><b>ii.</b> 
 Where the subject matter of the change is within the scope ofrepresentation pursuant to <span class="tooltip">HEERA<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Higher Education Employer-Employee Relations Act" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>; and</div>
<div class="lvl4"><b>iii.</b> 
 Where the UAW makes a request to negotiate with the University within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the receipt by the UAW of the University's notice as described in Section C.1.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>c.</b> An agreement resulting from such negotiations shall be executed in writing and shall become an addendum to this agreement.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>d.</b> If the parties do not reach agreement in the negotiations, the impasse procedures pursuant to <span class="tooltip">HEERA<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Higher Education Employer-Employee Relations Act" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> shall apply.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>e.</b> If the parties disagree as to whether a proposed change is subject to Section C above, such disagreement shall be subject to the <span class="tooltip">Grievance<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "grievance" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> and Arbitration Article of this agreement.</div>

