---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 36
article_name: Duration 
title: Article 36 - Duration 
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-36
pdf_name: bx_36-duration_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


## A. DURATION

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect commencing upon ratification by the parties, and shall terminate at 11:59 a.m. on May 31, 2025.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> Neither party shall have any duty to meet and confer for the purpose of modifying terms and conditions of the Agreement.</div>

## B. SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT NEGOTIATIONS

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> No later than December 1, 2024, the Union shall notify the University if it intends to open the Agreement for successor negotiations.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> The University shall have until December 15, 2024, to notify the Union if it intends to open the Agreement for successor negotiations.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>3.</b> If neither party notifies the other of its intent to open the Agreement for successor negotiations, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the procedures in Section C below shall apply.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>4.</b> If the conditions under B.1. and B. 2 are met, the Union shall provide the University with written notice of its selected article(s) and a list of bargaining team members by no later than January 14, 2025.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>5.</b> If the conditions under B.1., B.2., and B.4. are met, the University shall provide the Union with written notice of its selected article(s) by no later than January 28, 2025.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>6.</b> By February 4,2025 , the parties shall set a mutually agreeable start date for the commencement of negotiations.</div>

## C. CONTINUATION OF AGREEMENT

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> In the event that neither party gives timely notice as set forth in this section, this Agreement shall remain in effect on a year-to-year basis, from June 1st until the following May 31st.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> In the event that the Agreement continues in this manner, the parties shall provide written notice of selected articles and a list of bargaining team members for a successor Agreement no later than December 1st of the applicable academic year. Thereafter, the parties shall follow the requirements for negotiations of a successor agreement as set forth in Section B., above.</div>
