---
contract: GSR 2022-2025
article_number: 14
article_name: Holidays 
title: Article 14 - Holidays 
permalink: /uaw/gsr-2022-2025-contract/article-14
pdf_name: br_14_holidays_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


<div class="lvl1"><b>A.</b> The University observes the following days as holidays:</div>

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> January 1</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> Third Monday in January (Martin Luther King's Birthday)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>3.</b> Third Monday in February (President's Day)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>4.</b> Last Friday in March (Cesar Chavez Day)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>5.</b> Last Monday in May (Memorial Day)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>6.</b> June 19, or announced equivalent, (Juneteenth Federal Holiday)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>7.</b> Fourth of July</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>8.</b> First Monday in September (Labor Day)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>9.</b> November 11 (Veteran's Day)</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>10.</b> Thanksgiving Day</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>11.</b> Friday following Thanksgiving Day</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>12.</b> December 24</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>13.</b> December 25</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>14.</b> December 31</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>B.</b> Official holidays are those holidays as set forth annually in the campus calendar.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>C.</b> For LBNL, the provisions of this article shall apply except that LBNL does not recognize Veterans Day (November 11th) and Cesar Chavez Day (last Friday in March or announced equivalent). LBNL has one administrative holiday that can be used for Veterans Day, Cesar Chavez Day, or during the LBNL winter shutdown.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>D.</b> Unless alternate days are designated by the University, when a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed; and when a holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>E.</b> The University reserves the right to establish additional holidays.</div>
<div class="lvl1"><b>F.</b> When operational needs require, the supervisor may schedule <span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> to work on University holidays. In such instance(s), GSRs shall receive an alternate day off for each holiday worked. The GSR may request specific dates.</div>
