---
contract: GSR 2022-2025
article_number: 17
article_name: Leaves 
title: Article 17 - Leaves 
permalink: /uaw/gsr-2022-2025-contract/article-17
pdf_name: br_17_leaves_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


## A. MILITARY LEAVE

GSRs who are called to active military service will be provided leave from their current positions to fulfill their military obligations to the extent required by applicable law. Military leave will be paid to the extent required by applicable law and/or applicable University policy.

## B. PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE

Under the California Pregnancy Disability Leave laws, <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> are entitled to unpaid leave for up to four months per pregnancy and/or reasonable accommodation for pregnancy disability, childbirth, and related medical conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Pregnancy Disability Leave will not continue beyond the end date of the GSR's appointment. The University will maintain and pay for health insurance coverage (University-sponsored Student Health Insurance Plans, or other insurance as applicable) for the duration of the leave, not to exceed four months in a 12-month period under the same conditions that coverage would otherwise have been provided by the University if the GSR had been in employment continuously for the duration of the leave.

## C. SHORT-TERM LEAVE

### 1. Leave Eligibility 
GSRs with a 50% appointment who take a leave pursuant to Section C. 2 shall be eligible for up to two (2) days of paid leave for quarter campuses and up to three (3) days of paid leave for semester campuses. The amount of paid leave will be prorated for salaried <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> with appointments other than 50% <span class="tooltip">FTE<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "full-time equivalent" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>.
### 2. 
Upon request from a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, and subject to the provisions of this article, the University will grant a GSR's reasonable request for leave of absence of appropriate duration due to:
<div class="lvl3"><b>a.</b> personal illness and/or disability;</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>b.</b> birth, adoption, or care of a child or family member as defined below in Section H;</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>c.</b> family emergencies; or</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>d.</b> appointments and/or hearings scheduled by federal immigration officials or the U.S. Department of State with respect to immigration</div>
or citizenship status of the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, spouse, domestic partner, child or parent in accordance with <a href="/uaw/gsr-2022-2025-contract/article-15">Article 15</a> - Immigration.

### 3. Additional Short-Term Leave

Unpaid leave may be granted for periods beyond the terms of leaves in Section C.1., but shall not exceed the end of the appointment period. These leaves may be paid (in whole or in part) for reasons defined in Section C. 2 and at the sole discretion of the department or hiring unit.

## D. LONG-TERM LEAVE

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> Leave Eligibility — Salaried <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> who take a leave pursuant to Section D. 2 shall be eligible for up to eight (8) weeks of paid leave per academic year.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> Upon request from a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> and subject to the provisions of this Article, the University will grant a GSR's reasonable request for long-term leave due to:</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>a.</b> The <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s serious health condition, as defined under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), or to care for a family member of the GSR, as defined in Section H, who has a serious health condition;</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>b.</b> To care for and bond with the newborn child or a child placed with the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> for adoption or foster care, provided that the leave is taken within twelve months of the birth or placement of the child with the GSR; or</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>c.</b> Pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions for the period prior to, during, and after childbirth.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>3.</b> Whenever possible, leave should be requested at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance of the start date of the leave. The leave will not continue beyond the end date of the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s appointment.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>4.</b> Any paid leave taken under Section D shall run concurrently with any leave taken under Section B above pursuant to California's Pregnancy Disability Leave laws.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>5.</b> The paid leave provisions described in Section D run concurrently. A <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> will have a maximum of eight (8) weeks of paid leave in an academic year, regardless of the number of qualifying events.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>6.</b> The University will not retaliate against a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> who takes a leave under this Section.</div>

### 7. Additional Long-Term Leave

Unpaid leave may be granted for periods beyond the terms of leaves in Section D. 1 at the sole discretion of the University, but shall not exceed the end of the appointment period.

## E. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

The University will grant a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s reasonable request for bereavement leave due to the death of a family member as defined in Section H. The period of leave for bereavement shall be up to five (5) calendar days per occurrence. Salaried GSRs shall be granted up to five (5) calendar days pay for bereavement on those days the GSR was previously scheduled to work. Nothing in this Section shall preclude departments or hiring units from granting a longer period of paid bereavement leave when they determine the need to do so.

## F. JURY DUTY

A <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> shall be eligible for a jury duty leave when summoned for required jury duty service. Jury duty leave is leave with pay. Verification of actual jury duty service shall be provided by the GSR to the University upon request. Jury duty leave will not continue beyond the end date of the GSR's appointment.

## G. OTHER LEAVES

Other leaves, including, but not limited to, leave for service to government agencies and leave to attend professional meetings may be granted with or without pay at the University's sole discretion or if required by applicable law.

## H. DEFINITION OF FAMILY MEMBER

Family member is defined as a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s parent, child, spouse, domestic partner, grandparent, grandchild or sibling. Child means the GSR's biological child, adopted child, foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for whom the GSR stands in <span class="tooltip">loco parentis<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "loco parentis" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, who is under 18 years of age or incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability. Parent includes the GSR's biological parent, foster parent, adoptive parent, stepparent, parent-in-law, legal guardian, or an individual who stood in loco parentis to the GSR when the GSR was a child.

## I. REQUEST FOR LEAVE AND COVERAGE

In order to ensure proper coverage for leaves other than long-term leaves in Section D, <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> are expected to contact the supervisor to request leave as soon
as the need for the leave becomes known but not less than one (1) working day in advance of the commencement of the leave unless the leave is for an unanticipated personal or family illness or bereavement.

Requests for leave shall be made in writing with information about the nature of the leave and probable duration. Upon request, the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> will be required to provide appropriate documentation. While it is the University's responsibility to make arrangements for coverage, the GSR will assist as reasonably as possible.

## J. TRAINEES AND FELLOWS

Any paid leaves provided to a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> through a training grant or external fellowship that provides equivalent or more generous paid leave benefits shall satisfy the requirements above. Any paid leaves provided for through a training grant or external fellowship shall be deducted from the paid leave allocations set forth in this Article. If the training grant or external fellowship does not provide for paid leaves, Trainees and Fellows will be provided the paid leaves in this Article.

