---
contract: GSR 2022-2025
article_number: 24
article_name: Reasonable Accommodation
title: Article 24 - Reasonable Accommodation
permalink: /uaw/gsr-2022-2025-contract/article-24
pdf_name: br_24_reasonable-accommodation_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


## A. GENERAL PROVISIONS

In a manner that is consistent with applicable law, the University shall provide reasonable accommodation to qualified <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> who are disabled or become disabled and need assistance to perform the essential functions of their jobs. This section shall not be construed as a guarantee of a specific form of accommodation. The interactive process shall be used to determine what, if any, reasonable accommodation will be made and to monitor the continuing effectiveness of the accommodation.

## B. MEDICAL DOCUMENTATION

When requested by the University, the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> is responsible for providing the University disability manager with medical documentation identifying functional limitations and how such limitations affect the GSR's ability to perform the essential functions of the job. The University may require that a GSR be examined by an appropriate University-appointed licensed health care provider. In such a case, the University shall pay the costs of the University-appointed health care provider.

## C. THE INTERACTIVE PROCESS

<div class="lvl2"><b>1.</b> When a <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> requests reasonable accommodation for a disability or the University has reason to believe that a reasonable accommodation is needed, the parties will engage in the interactive process, which is an ongoing dialogue between the GSR and appropriate University representatives (e.g., supervisor, departmental administrator, department or unit head, and/or disability management representative) about possible options for reasonably accommodating the GSR's disability. The GSR may bring a union representative to the interactive process. This process shall occur as soon as practicable. Options for reasonable accommodation may include but are not limited to: assistive devices; modification of existing facilities; restructuring the job to eliminate non-essential job functions; and leaves of absence. Both the University and the GSR are expected to participate in the interactive process in good faith, which includes engaging in timely communications regarding possible reasonable accommodation.</div>
<div class="lvl2"><b>2.</b> During the interactive process, the University considers information related to: the essential functions of the job, the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s functional limitations; possible accommodations; the reasonableness of possible accommodations; and issues related to the implementation of a reasonable accommodation. This information will be used by the University to determine what, if any, reasonable accommodation will be made. While the University will consider the GSR's suggestions regarding which accommodation(s) to implement, the University will determine which accommodation(s) will be implemented.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>a.</b> The University will consider reasonable accommodations that would enable the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> to continue (or resume) performing the essential functions of their assigned position for the duration of the appointment, which may include a temporary alternate position.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>b.</b> <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSRs<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> may bring a support person to the interactive process meeting which could include a union representative.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>c.</b> The University is not obligated to implement an accommodation that would present an undue hardship.</div>
<div class="lvl3"><b>d.</b> If the reasonable accommodation is a leave, in no circumstances shall leave be granted beyond the expiration of the <span class="tooltip"><span class="tooltip">GSR<span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span><span class="tooltip-text">{% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "graduate student researcher" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s current appointment.</div>

## D. TEMPORARY WORK ADJUSTMENT

If the Interactive Process is initiated in accordance with Section C above, the supervisor/department administrator, in consultation with the disability management team, may assist in a temporary work adjustment until the Interactive Process is completed.

