---
contract: ASE 2022-2025
article_number: 18
article_name: Leaves 
title: Article 18 - Leaves 
permalink: /uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-18
pdf_name: bx_18-leaves_2022-2025.pdf
toc: True
---


<div class="lvl2"><h2>A. MILITARY LEAVE</h2>

ASEs who are called to active military service will be provided leave from their current positions to fulfill their military obligations to the extent required by applicable law. Military leave will be paid to the extent required by applicable law and/or applicable University policy.

</div><!-- End of level 2: A. MILITARY LEAVE-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>B. PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE</h2>

Under the California Pregnancy Disability Leave laws, <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> are entitled to unpaid leave for up to four months per pregnancy and/or <span class="tooltip">reasonable accommodation<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Reasonable accommodation</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "reasonable accommodation" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> for pregnancy disability, childbirth, and related medical conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Pregnancy Disability Leave will not continue beyond the end date of the ASE's appointment. The University will maintain and pay for health insurance coverage (University-sponsored Student Health Insurance Plans, or other insurance for non-student ASEs, as applicable) for the duration of the leave, not to exceed four months in a 12-month period under the same conditions that coverage would otherwise have been provided by the University if the ASE had been in employment continuously for the duration of the leave.

</div><!-- End of level 2: B. PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>C. SHORT-TERM LEAVE</h2>

<div class="lvl3"><h3>1. Leave Eligibility</h3>

<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">a.</h4> Salaried <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> with a 50% appointment who take a leave pursuant to Section C.2 shall be eligible for up to two (2) days of paid leave for quarter campuses and up to three (3) days of paid leave for semester campuses. The amount of paid leave will be prorated for salaried ASEs with appointments other than 50% <span class="tooltip">FTE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Full-time equivalent</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "full-time equivalent" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>.
</div><!-- End of level 4: a.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">b.</h4> When hourly <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> take a leave pursuant to Section C.2, it shall be unpaid.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 1. Leave Eligibility-->
</div><!-- End of level 4: b.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>2. </h3>
Upon request from an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, and subject to the provisions of this article, the University will grant an ASE's reasonable request for leave of absence of appropriate duration due to:
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">a.</h4> personal illness and/or disability;
</div><!-- End of level 4: a.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">b.</h4> birth, adoption, or care of a child or family member as defined below in Section H;
</div><!-- End of level 4: b.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">c.</h4> family emergencies; or
</div><!-- End of level 4: c.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">d.</h4> appointments and/or hearings scheduled by federal immigration officials or the U.S. Department of State with respect to immigration or citizenship status of the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, spouse, domestic partner, child or parent in accordance with <a href="/uaw/ase-2022-2025-contract/article-16">Article 16 - Immigration</a>.

</div><!-- End of level 3: 2. -->
</div><!-- End of level 4: d.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>3. Additional Short-Term Leave</h3>

Unpaid leave may be granted for periods beyond the terms of leaves in Section C.1, but shall not exceed the end of the appointment period. These leaves may be paid (in whole or in part) for reasons defined in Section C.2 and at the sole discretion of the department or hiring unit.

</div><!-- End of level 2: C. SHORT-TERM LEAVE-->
</div><!-- End of level 3: 3. Additional Short-Term Leave-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>D. LONG-TERM LEAVE</h2>

<div class="lvl3"><h3>1. Leave Eligibility</h3>

Salaried <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> who take a leave pursuant to Section D.2 shall be eligible for up to eight (8) weeks of paid leave per academic year.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 1. Leave Eligibility-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>2.  </h3>
Upon request from an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> and subject to the provisions of this Article, the University will grant an ASE's reasonable request for long-term leave due to:
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">a.</h4> The <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s serious health condition, as defined under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), or to care for a family member of the ASE, as defined in Section H, who has a serious health condition;
</div><!-- End of level 4: a.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">b.</h4> To care for and bond with the newborn child or a child placed with the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> for adoption or foster care, provided that the leave is taken within twelve months of the birth or placement of the child with the ASE; or
</div><!-- End of level 4: b.-->
<div class="lvl4"><h4 class="inline-header">c.</h4> Pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions for the period prior to, during, and after childbirth.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 2.  -->
</div><!-- End of level 4: c.-->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>3.  </h3>
Whenever possible, leave should be requested at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance of the start date of the leave. The leave will not continue beyond the end date of the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s appointment.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 3.  -->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>4.  </h3>
Any paid leave taken under Section D shall run concurrently with any leave taken under Section B above pursuant to California's Pregnancy Disability Leave laws.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 4.  -->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>5.  </h3>
The paid leave provisions described in Section D run concurrently. An <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> will have a maximum of eight (8) weeks of paid leave in an academic year, regardless of the number of qualifying events.
</div><!-- End of level 3: 5.  -->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>6.  </h3>
The University will not retaliate against an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> who takes a leave under this Section.

</div><!-- End of level 3: 6.  -->
<div class="lvl3"><h3>7. Additional Long-Term Leave</h3>

Unpaid leave may be granted for periods beyond the terms of leaves in Section D.1 at the sole discretion of the University but shall not exceed the end of the appointment period.

</div><!-- End of level 2: D. LONG-TERM LEAVE-->
</div><!-- End of level 3: 7. Additional Long-Term Leave-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>E. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE</h2>

The University will grant an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s reasonable request for bereavement leave due to the death of a family member as defined in Section H. The period of leave for bereavement shall be up to five (5) calendar days per occurrence. Salaried ASEs shall be granted up to five (5) calendar days pay for bereavement on those days the ASE was previously scheduled to work. Nothing in this Section shall preclude departments or hiring units from granting a longer period of paid bereavement leave when they determine the need to do so.

</div><!-- End of level 2: E. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>F. JURY DUTY</h2>

An <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> shall be eligible for a jury duty leave when summoned for required jury duty service. Jury duty leave is leave with pay. Verification of actual jury duty service shall be provided by the ASE to the University upon request. Jury duty leave will not continue beyond the end date of the ASE's appointment.

</div><!-- End of level 2: F. JURY DUTY-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>G. OTHER LEAVES</h2>

Other leaves, including, but not limited to, leave for service to government agencies and leave to attend professional meetings may be granted with or without pay at the University's sole discretion or if required by applicable law.

</div><!-- End of level 2: G. OTHER LEAVES-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>H. DEFINITION OF FAMILY MEMBER</h2>

Family member is defined as an <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>'s parent, child, spouse, domestic partner, grandparent, grandchild, or sibling. Child means the ASE's biological child, adopted child, foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for whom the ASE stands in <span class="tooltip">loco parentis<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Loco parentis</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "loco parentis" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span>, who is under 18 years of age or incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability. Parent includes the ASE's biological parent, foster parent, adoptive parent, stepparent, parent-in-law, legal guardian, or an individual who stood in loco parentis to the ASE when the ASE was a child.

</div><!-- End of level 2: H. DEFINITION OF FAMILY MEMBER-->
<div class="lvl2"><h2>I. REQUEST FOR LEAVE AND COVERAGE</h2>

In order to ensure proper coverage for leaves other than long-term leaves in Section D, <span class="tooltip">ASEs<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> are expected to contact the supervisor to request leave as soon as the need for the leave becomes known but not less than one (1) working day in advance of the commencement of the leave unless the leave is for an unanticipated personal or family illness or bereavement.

Requests for leave shall be made in writing with information about the nature of the leave and probable duration. Upon request, the <span class="tooltip">ASE<span class="tooltip-text"><b>Academic Student Employee</b>: {% assign tooltip_term = site.data.union_glossary | where: "Term", "Academic Student Employee" %}{{ tooltip_term[0]["Meaning"] }}</span></span> will be required to provide appropriate documentation. While it is the University's responsibility to make arrangements for coverage, the ASE will assist as reasonably possible.

</div><!-- End of level 2: I. REQUEST FOR LEAVE AND COVERAGE-->
